All about wine
https://winefolly.com/deep-dive/the-science-behind-great-wine/

https://wineserver.ucdavis.edu/industry-info/enology/methods-and-techniques/common-chemical-reagents/citric-acid

https://www.amatteroftaste.com/wine/the-truth-about-sulfites-in-wine

https://daily.sevenfifty.com/how-winemakers-analyze-ph-and-its-impact-on-wine/

Clay produces rich wines
Sand produces wine with more aroma and higher color density.

Silt is hard to manage and produces herbaceous wine that is possible to emulate clay.

Loam is found on valley floors and is not used much for wine, due to over productivity, reducing the quality of the grapes.

Red wines tend to be grown on clay dominate soil
White wine tends to be grown in sandy/rocky soil and tends to be aromatic (but not exclusive to white wine)

Depending on how shallow or infertile the soil is would depend on the amount of leaves the vines will produce, with some claiming the more grapes over leaves produced, the lower the aromatic levels of the wine

Red wine will change in pH levels depending on it’s hue (red based = lower, blue based = higher)

A certain amount of days is needed to ripen the wine to is most sweetest and pH, but even a few days longer will produce flabby overripe wine.

Red wine is typically fermented with their skin and stored in an oak barrel while white wine is typically stored in steel vats.

Depending on its temperature, fermentation can be influenced to preserves the fruit/flowery aroma at cold temperature or have more earthiness at warmer temperatures.

The more Yeast the wine was fermented, the more sugar it will eat.

Citric acid is used to not only filter the bacteria but to also create a sour taste

Density has little effect on the quality of wine, citric acid affects quality more.

Sulfite is used to preserve wine for longer periods of time, more used in white wine due to its vulnerability to spoilage. Sulfite isn’t harmful to 99% of people, but while it kills bacteria, it could also kill the flavor if high amount of sulfite is used.  Note that while you can taste more with less sulfite, it isn’t fully possible to remove all sulfite. But the more sulfite is used, the flatter the wine becomes. 

If the pH is higher, the wine will feel softer and rounder, while low pH will feel flat.

If your saliva has more protein content, you will taste more acid taste testers will wash off with water before tasting.

Screw caps do not cause cork taint, as poor quality corks are susceptible to chlorine but can be prevented with sulfur dioxide

Sugar (left by grapes in a form of fructose and glucose) is eaten by bacteria, the more sugar that is eaten, the more alcohol is produced